Comments on Dec 19 draft  "Levo -- A Scalable Processor With High IPC"


The whole the paper still seemed very good.  Frankly, compared to all
of the various other papers that have been published in the last year
and a half or so on the topic of large-window-superscalars, it seems
like this is at least as good a contribution as any of them.  Also, I
think that all or most all of any related work has been cited,
so at least those people can't complain that you didn't recognize their
work.  (Although I lavishly recognized the prior similar work of
Franklin and Sohi in the ISPASS submission, that seemed to backfire a
bit ! -- who can figure).

Anyway, here are my (very few) individual comments :

= page 2, sec 1, last par, sen 2

context:	Other issues are addressed in Section 2.
suggestion:	Other implementation issues are ...


= page 4 (top), sec 2.2, last sen

context:	latter can increase the size ...

As I read this, I first thought of size referring to the number of
registers in the file.  Of course you mean the physical implementation
size of the file.  You might rephrase to something like :

		latter can increase the physical implementation size ...


= page 4, sec 3, 2nd par, last sen on page

context:	from earlier in the E-window ...
suggestion:	from earlier store instructions in the E-window


= page 5, sec 3, 1st on page, sen 2

context:	each one typically a column long

This is OK, and you also clarify later that the span is not fixed to
a column height, but it might sound to the reader at this point in the
paper that a column height is too long and therefor not scalable.
Maybe I'm overly paranoid of reader's reactions here but you might consider :

	each one typically a column or less long in length.


= page 5, sec 3, par 3 on page, sen 1

context:	holds nm Active Stations

Although 'n' and 'm' were previously introduced, is this clear enough
to the read that you mean multiplication here ?  Maybe something like
'n*m' might be clearer at this point.  This is just my own hangup and
may not be that of a reader ! :-)


= page 5, sec 3, sen 1

context:	Levo's microarchitecture should be alterable, ...
suggestion:	Levo's microarchitecture is alterable, ...

I am not aware of any ISA that could not be implemented in a Levo-style
machine.  Even things like EPIC (which seem to be somewhat in conflict
with its own ISA-visible predicates) is handled in a straightforward way.
Even i86 with its implied register operands can be handled.  It's a
judgment call as to what might appear to be arrogance or not on our
part, but my first reaction is that the reader may assume that we 
do not know if Levo can apply or not to some ISAs (a sign of weakness
on our part).  Anyway, you can decide which way you want to focus the
reader here.


= page 7, last par, last sen on page

context:	only tagged memory references, required the use of ...

I think that you want to remove the comma here.  It didn't seem to
read properly with that in there.  Maybe I just missed the cadence of
the whole sentence though.


= page 13, sec 3.3.2, par 1, sen 2

context:	DEE requires the most ...

I think that you mean :

		DEE requires that most likely instructions to be ...

Please read the whole sentence there to fix it up properly.


= page 23, 2nd par on page, sen 2

context:	We find it best to eliminate the issue ; ...

:-) :-)  Oh, I liked it ! :-)  I say, keep this in !  I hope that
someone too sensitive (whatever) is not offended at your directness here,
but I say keep it in ! :-)

In general, I think that you have done a good job of addressing the
merits of some of the recent ideas and approaches to the register file
problem and its access.  This sounds compelling to me but I know now
(through some student experience) that reviewers will still find ways
to try to hack the paper !


= page 25, top sen on page

context:	It gave an IPC of 1.96 ...

As I remember, this was a harmonic mean across all benchmarks.
To avoid confusion to the reader, you might want to say something like :

	It gave a harmonic mean of 1.96 across all benchmarks, ...

If you want to also include the arithmetic mean, it was 2.07.




