Draft Paper Plan for MEDEA'02, HPCA'02, and beyond



Dates :

July 3		deadline for the MEDEA abstract
July 10		deadline for the submission of the MEDEA paper
July 12		deadline for the submission of the HPCA paper
July 19		extended deadline (1 week extension) for the HPCA paper
August 15	IEEE TOC deadline


General plan guidelines :

MEDEA is coming first so we'll try and address that first.
Paper requirements for MEDEA are :

+ 10 pages maximum
+ format should be for IEEE (?)
+ abstract is due on July 3
+ submission is on July 10

For MEDEA, we will take the submitted PACT paper and edit it down
to 10 pages.  Dave M. will be primarily responsible for this.
Dave will also write an initial abstract for MEDEA.  Additional
contributions should be fed to Dave M. for incorporation into
the final paper.  We need to be mindful that the abstract is due
on July 3.  The current plan is to not produce any additional
data for MEDEA but rather focus new-data energy on the HPCA paper.


HPCA is next after MEDEA but is being worked concurrently.  The HPCA
paper submission guidelines are ;

+ 6000 words maximum
+ submission deadline July 12
+ submission requirs PDF that can be viewed in Acroread 3.0 or higher

The general idea for HPCA will be to do a paper introducing the Levo
machine idea along with supporting IPC data.  Initially, the data will
be the primary data associated with the varying geometries of the
machine.  The main new trust for the paper will be quick and intense
investigation into a better i-fetch and AS-load strategy.  The goal is
to try and close the gap between the current "REALISTIC" fetch
heuristic with the "IDEAL" fetch heuristic.  We will attempt to do this
by :

+ include a better branch predictor than what we have now
  (we currently have gshare-PAg and we will move to Tournament)

+ change to a different i-fetch heuristic (exact details yet to be
  worked out) where more use of dynamic loading of ASes is used
  ("IDEAL" is all dynamic)

The hope is to get closer to the behavior and performance on IDEAL
fetching.  We already know that (frankly) branch predictors do not
perform as well as their introducing papers always seem to suggest and
therefor D-path use will need to be used to make up the performance
difference.  This will probably be a significant part of the overall
performance story that will be presented in the paper.

Dave M. will primarily create the new predictor (Tournament) and
Ali will primarily work on the enhanced i-fetch heuristic.
Dave M. will also be the lead author on the HPCA paper.


TOC is after HPCA.  Ali and Dave M. are thinking up ways to better
characterize the memory system performance as part of the story for
TOC.  This is preliminary at this point and will be done on a lower
priority until we get the MEDEA and the HPCA papers submitted.


Tentative schedule :

06/27	Dave supplies Tournament predictor code for use.

07/01	New i-fetch strategy in place and sims started for
	machine geometry comparison data.

07/01	Dave has draft of MEDEA paper ready for review including
        a draft abstract.

07/02	Comments and suggestions for the MEDEA abstract are sent to Dave.

07/03	Abstract (and title) for MEDEA is submitted.

07/08	A full set of the data for the HPCA paper needs to be completed
	for the HPCA paper (work backwards from here to schedule runs).

07/09	Dave M. has draft of HPCA paper ready except for maybe some data.

07/09	Final comments on the MEDEA paper are sent to Dave M.

07/10	The MEDEA paper is submitted.

07/11	Comments on the HPCA paper draft are due to Dave M.

07/12	Submission-ready version of the HPCA paper is ready.

07/19	The HPCA paper is submitted if not done so already.

07/20	Additional plan details for the TOC paper are provided.

08/15	TOC paper is completed.


