Levo Development Status 00/05/18


This note will document the geometry and major state of the
Levo machine to date.


= Development Machine and Filesystem

All code integration will be done on the 'leviathan' machine
down at URI.  The simulator package distrubution tree (described
later) is located at :

	/marlin/morano/levosim/

The source code is located under the above directory at :

	/marlin/morano/levosim/src/

Include files that need to be public across major subsystems of the
simulator program (currently this looks like most of the include files)
are located in :

	/marlin/morano/levosim/src/



= Levo Development Tree

The Levo machine simulator development is mostly contained under one
directory tree.  This development tree resembles a general package
distribution tree that is often used for UNIX related packages.  All
Levo simulator specific code is under this tree.

The distribution tree has the following general structure :

directory			description
------------------------------------------------------------------------

levosim/			top of distribution
	doc/			simulator documentation
		levovis/	documentation relating to LevoVis
	include/		most all include files for simulator
	lib/			generic libraries for simulator
		S5/		SunOS 5 specific libraries
	src/			simulator source code (top)
		frame/		simulator startup initialization code
		memory/		simulator memory code
		machine/	simulator top machine level code
		iwindow/	Levo instruction window code
		mint/		MINT and other Levo simulation utilities
	etc/			simulator configuration files


An environment variable named 'LEVOSIM_PROGRAMROOT' can be used to
specify a default top-level directory for the distribution directory
tree.  This is a run-time variable allowing for the simulator directory
tree to be located differently for different installations or
invocations.  The top of the distribution tree can also be supplied as
an invocation argument to the simulator (described elsewhere for the
moment).

For development purposes, an environment variable named 'LEVO' should
be set to the top of the distribution directory tree also.  This latter
environment variable is used in the Makefiles for the code.  This
allows for the development of the code to occur using pieces from both
an established Levo distribution directory tree and the development
version of a directory tree.


= General Configurability

There will be two major mechanisms for configuring the Levo machine
simulator.  These are provided through the use of two files.  The first
file can be provided with the simulator invocation arguments (specified
elsewhere for the moment).  The default name for this file if otherwise
unspecified is 'levosim.conf' and will be searched for in the 'etc'
directory of the current distribution directory tree.  This file is
referred to as the General Configuration file.  The second major
configuration file is named through a parameter in the first file.  The
first file is a general configuration file and is currently planned to
contain the following configurable parameters :

	parameter	description
	-----------------------------------------------------------

	mintexec	name of simulator executable file
	paramtab	name of second major configuration file

The parameter 'mintexec' is needed to tell the simulator where its own
executable file is located.  This is currently used by the MINT code.
A default name can be given to point to the file within the
distribution directory tree but I think that a default will also be
calculated within the code if nothing is specified.

The parameter 'paramtab' can be used to name the second major
configuration file and can contain parameters about the geometry of
the simulator.  These parameters are discussed in the next section on
simulator machine geometry.  The name of this second major
configuration file is the Parameter file.


= Major Machine Components


The machine consists of various buses and non-bus components.
The major components of the Levo machine are currently :

component		description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

las			active station
lsg			sharing group
lpe			processing element (PE)
bus			a generic bus
mem			memory subsystem



= Machine Geometry

The geometry of the Levo machine is configurable to some extent.
Parameters for establishing a specific Levo machine geometry will be
prepared and passed to the Levo simulator in the Parameter file.  The
name of this file is given in the General Configuration file for now
but may possibly be given as an invocation argument to the simulator
(to be coded).  The machine parameters that are configurable at
this time include :


parameter	default	description
------------------------------------------------------------------------

program		-	file specifying the program to execute
args		-	argument to the program to execute
stdin		TBD	file used for standard input to the simulated program
stdout		TBD	file used for standard output for the simulated program
stderr		TBD	file used for standard error for the simulated program

mintopts	-	options to the MINT code

ngrows		32	sharing groups per column
ngcols		8	sharing groups per instruction window row
nfspan		8	the span for the SG register forward buses
nshpsg		2	active station height per sharing group


The current non-configurable parameters of the machine are :

parameter	default	description
------------------------------------------------------------------------

npepsg		1	number of PEs per sharing group
nswpsg		2	number of ASs in a row within a sharing group


Parameters that are yet to be coded (and subject to change) are :

ndeepaths	4	number of DEE paths


NOTES:
	TBD	to be determined
	-	no default or taken as none



= Miscellaneous Code Descriptions

Here are brief description of the code modules so far.
The indentation of a code module name shows its position
in an object hierarchy if any.

code module		description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

frame			simulator startup
mint			MINT code
machine			top of Levo machine
  levo			top Levo machine object
  bus			generic bus
iwindow			instruction window
  iw			instruction window object
    las			Levo active station object
    lpe			Levo processing element (PE)
    lsg			Levo sharing group object
memory			memory code
  mem			top level memory subsystem object




