   Rise of Internet 'Borders' Prompts Fears for Web's Future
   
   by Ariana Eunjung Cha

   Friday January 4, 2002

   Washington Post

   
   It is the modern-day equivalent of a border sentry. When visitors try
   to enter UKBetting.com, a computer program checks their identification
   to determine where they're dialing in from. Most people are waved on
   through. Those from the United States, China, Italy and other
   countries where gambling laws are muddy, however, are flashed a sign
   in red letters that says "ACCESS DENIED" and are locked out of the Web
   site.
   
   For much of its life, the Internet has been seen as a great
   democratizing force, a place where nobody needs know who or where you
   are. But that notion has begun to shift in recent months, as
   governments and private businesses increasingly try to draw boundaries
   around what used to be a borderless Internet to deal with legal,
   commercial and terrorism concerns.
   
   "It used to be that a person sitting in one place could get or send
   information anywhere in the world," said Jack Goldsmith, a professor
   of international law at the University of Chicago. "But now the
   Internet is starting to act more like real space with all its
   limitations."
   
   These new barriers take many forms. One method is to simply restrict
   who has access to computers and gateways to the Internet. Another is
   to make all communications pass through filters that seek to weed out
   objectionable content, such as pornography or information deemed to
   endanger national security. Growing in popularity is software that
   attempts to match a computer's unique Internet address with a general
   geographic location, a technology that is becoming more precise every
   day.
   
   The debate is no longer about if we can create these barriers, but
   rather whether we should. Even those who support the idea in theory
   disagree on who should erect and maintain the electronic fences,
   whether it should be done by nation-states or by the Web site
   operators.
   
   The new borders provide what some call a neat solution to the vexing
   problem of how to resolve the often-conflicting policies of the
   roughly 200 independent states of the world on matters such as
   gambling, commerce, copyright and speech.
   
   But critics fear that the barriers will create an Internet that's
   balkanized. And civil rights groups warn that freedom of speech will
   suffer, that the technology will make it easier for oppressive
   governments to stifle nonconformist viewpoints, and that people's
   privacy will be eroded, especially because some technologies can
   pinpoint one's location.
   
   "It's likely that the Internet of tomorrow will look radically
   different from different parts of the world," said Lee Tien, a lawyer
   with the Electronic Frontier Foundation in San Francisco.
   
   Already legislatures and court systems around the world have been
   attempting to assert their country's authority over the World Wide
   Web. Hong Kong's government, for instance, has been debating whether
   to pass a law that would make it a crime for any overseas gambling
   site to offer services to its residents. A court in Genoa, Italy,
   recently found the operator of a Web site in another country guilty of
   libel. A French judge has ordered Yahoo to stop selling Nazi
   paraphernalia because a law there bans such practices.
   
   Without an international treaty or mediation organization, such
   rulings have so far been largely unenforceable on parties residing
   outside a country's borders. But that has not stopped countries from
   drafting rules for what is and is not permissible online.
   
   At least 59 nations limit freedom of expression, according to Leonard
   R. Sussman, author of "Censor.gov." Singapore, for instance, works
   with Internet access providers to block any material that undermines
   public security, national defense, racial and religious harmony, and
   morals. That includes pornography and hate speech.
   
   Some analysts say the barriers could grow with the development of
   "geolocation" technology, which attempts to match a person's location
   based on a computer's Internet address.
   
   Silicon Valley's Quova Inc., one of the leading providers of this
   technology, claims it can correctly identify a computer user's home
   country 98 percent of the time and the city about 85 percent of the
   time, but only if it's a large city. Independent studies have pegged
   the accuracy rate of such programs, which also are sold by companies
   such as InfoSplit, Digital Envoy, Netgeo and Akami, at 70 to 90
   percent.
   
   The system is not foolproof; people can easily get past by using
   special software programs to cloak their identities. But experts such
   as Goldsmith, the Chicago law professor, say the technology need not
   work perfectly to have an impact. These barriers act like checkpoints
   on a nation's physical border: They can be evaded, but most people
   probably won't want to go to all the trouble.
   
   Gambling sites were among the first to roll out the technology, last
   year. When users from countries where online gambling is not allowed
   try to get on, they are either not given the option to place bets or
   they are kicked out when they try to register for an account.
   
   "There are a number of sites out there that just do not care about the
   laws. They are perfectly happy to let U.S. gamblers in even though
   they know it's illegal," said Jeremy Thompson-Hill, an account manager
   for OrbisUK, which provides the sentry technology used by Sports.com,
   Ladbrokes.com and other betting sites. "But most reputable companies
   want to be able to say to the United States, 'We're taking every
   reasonable precaution to prevent the use of our gambling software in
   your country.' "
   
   The technology also is being embraced by Web broadcasters, whose
   nascent industry had been growing slowly because of concerns about
   copyright. JumpTV is betting its future on this technology. The
   Montreal-based venture retransmits television broadcasts from around
   the world and is trying to avoid being sued by broadcasters who claim
   it violates their broadcasting licenses. In early 2000, a U.S. judge
   effectively shut down another Canadian company called iCraveTV by
   prohibiting it from broadcasting its signals into the United States
   for 90 days.
   
   Farrel Miller, JumpTV's chief executive, said the company hopes to
   begin retransmitting ABC, CBS and NBC only to Canadian viewers early
   next year but was much more modest about his company's aspirations
   than some heads of other webcasting companies during the dot-com boom.
   
   "We do not see the Internet as a revolutionary medium that will change
   the TV business," Miller said. "It'll be just another alternative
   vehicle for disseminating channels."
   
   The difficulty in recognizing nation-state borders on the Internet
   became such a concern during the 2000 Sydney Games that the
   International Olympic Committee effectively banned most Web video of
   the events.
   
   Television stations had paid enormous fees for the rights to broadcast
   the games on a country-by-country basis -- NBC, for instance, shelled
   out $3.5 billion for the United States -- and they were worried that
   piracy or even legitimate online transmissions that were accessible to
   anyone, anywhere might devalue the worth of those contracts. The IOC
   and many of the owners of broadcast rights say the accuracy rate for
   geolocation technology is still not good enough and they won't allow
   any webcasts for the Salt Lake City games this February.
   
   "The technology just doesn't pass muster yet. There's no way to
   guarantee that your broadcast would be confined to your territory and
   would not run in to someone else's," said Kevin Monaghan, a vice
   president for NBC Sports.
   
   Even if geolocation technology worked perfectly, some legal experts
   said it would not be feasible because it would require Web site
   operators to know the applicable laws in every country.
   
   "Geographical location technology is a red herring," said Alan
   Davidson, a lawyer with the Center for Technology and Democracy, a
   Washington think tank. "It would be incredibly burdensome to tailor
   content to meet all of the different laws in all of the different
   countries everywhere the world."
   
   That's the heart of the question being addressed by a court case that
   pits Yahoo Inc. against France.
   
   Last year, two French groups -- League Against Racism and
   Anti-Semitism and the Union of Jewish Students -- sued Yahoo for
   allowing Nazi collectibles to be sold on its auction pages. The sale
   of such hate material is illegal in France. Almost 1,000 such items
   were on the block at the time, including Adolf Hitler's "Mein Kampf,"
   stamps and coins, as well as hate paraphernalia.
   
   Jean-Jacques Gomez, a judge in Paris, ordered Yahoo to prevent French
   users from seeing the material by using the geolocation technology.
   
   Yahoo declined on principle and sued in U.S. District Court in San
   Jose to make the order unenforceable because a foreign judge could not
   impose such conditions on a U.S.-based company. U.S. Judge Jeremy
   Fogel ruled Nov. 7 that the First Amendment trumps overseas laws when
   they pertain to content produced by U.S. companies. An appeals court
   upheld the decision but the French groups have appealed again and have
   vowed to take the case to the U.S. Supreme Court if necessary.
   
   The attorney for the French groups, Ronald Katz, argues that the issue
   is not about free speech but about national sovereignty.
   
   "Yahoo wants to use the court decision as a sort of megaphone to say
   the U.S. controls the Internet," he said.
   
   Indeed, the U.S. dominance of the Internet is one major thing that
   observers say will change with the new electronic borders, slowing the
   dissemination of ideologies and culture across countries.
   
   "Is geographical tracking a panacea that solves international
   jurisdiction issues? Probably not. But is it a technology that's
   significantly changing the social, economic and political aspects of
   how we communicate on the Internet?" Davidson said. "Absolutely."
