Chinese Working Overtime to Sew U.S. Flags
by John Pomfret
Thursday September 20, 2001
Washington Post


SHANGHAI -- As America wraps its wounds in red, white and blue, flag
factories in China are running nonstop to feed the overwhelming demand
in the United States for the Stars and Stripes.

At the Shanghai Mei Li Hua Flags Co., office director Wu Guomin has
received orders for more than 500,000 flags from customers in the
United States in the week since the terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington. "I guess because we make so many of these things you could
say we feel a little closer to the situation there," Wu said as he
fingered an American flag. "We're working day and night."

The Jin Teng Flag Co. in neighboring Zhejiang province reported orders
of 600,000. "It's crazy and very, very sad," said Jin Teng, the factory
owner. "Everyone is on overtime trying to satisfy demand."

Jin and Wu said that even with China's National Day fast approaching on
Oct. 1, they have stopped making Chinese flags so that they can fill
U.S. orders.

"We've been presented with an opportunity to make a lot more money
than we usually do making these flags," said Wu, whose factory sells
medium-size flags to U.S. distributors for about $1 apiece. "But we
won't take it. We really didn't want to make too much of a profit on
other people's sadness."

At the Shanghai plant, Fei Xiaohua, a laborer, was sewing a 6-by-9-foot
flag. "This is my 50th so far today," she said, her fingers working
nimbly. "Sometimes I don't like this job. But this time, what I'm doing
seems worth it."

It is unclear what percentage of U.S. flags are made in China, but
as with all textiles, the numbers have boomed in recent years. China
produces more shoes and clothes for the U.S. market than any other
country. In a few years, China will become the biggest producer of
computer parts for the U.S. market as well.

The flag business illustrates the increasingly close trade ties between
China and the United States, valued last year at more than $100 billion.
Those ties are expected to expand with China's imminent accession to the
World Trade Organization (WTO). China moved a giant step forward toward
that goal last weekend when the organization generally agreed on its
conditions for entry.

"WTO should provide a great opportunity for us," said Wu, a suave
44-year-old manager. "Right now, no one around the world can really
compete with us flag makers. We have good machines and rock-bottom labor
costs."

Wu and Jin said they hoped Americans would not mind that Chinese were
making their flags. The manufacture of such patriotic symbols has caused
trouble in the past. Following the April 1 collision of a U.S. Navy
reconnaissance plane and a Chinese jet fighter off China's southern
coast, the Pentagon canceled contracts to outfit Army soldiers with a
"Made in China" black beret.

China, too, has used trade as a lever in relations with Washington,
expressing occasional discontent with U.S. policies by cozying up to
Europe's Airbus Industries instead of Boeing Co. But this time, in the
days following the disaster, as the global airline market crashed, China
repeated its commitment to buy 30 Boeing 737s, making it one of the
world's bright spots for aviation firms.

"We are living in a really global world right now," said Wu. "It's
natural that China manufactures simple things for the whole world. We
have a manufacturing economy."

But Sun Zhenyu, a top trade official, warned today that China's export
growth, a key element in China's economy, will likely face a serious
threat for the remainder of the year, according to the official New
China News Agency. Already, Chinese travel agents are reporting hundreds
of cancellations.

"The U.S. economy is already bad, surely this will affect the global
economy, including China," Sun said.

