We have three major comments on the reviews. First, our paper is not 
the typical incremental change paper, rather it presents a
design which changes almost everything within a CPU; hence, it is not
possible to describe all of the details going into the design in a
single paper. Separating the components out would not work, either,
if we are to present the entire microarchitecture; the components depend
on each other. Second,
it is unreasonable to expect us to have a complete chip design done
for this paper; we are not Intel: we do not have hundreds of engineers
and $2 billion fab lines at our disposal. Thirdly, it is a dense paper,
which is unavoidable, and requires both time and effort of the reader. 
We think that at least with one of the reviewers, if not more, the 
requisite time and effort were not expended, otherwise many fewer 
issues would have been raised.

Other detailed responses:
Review #495:
	The reviewer is primarily concerned about a possibly high cycle time
(his/her points (1) and [1]), and a perceived lack of motivation for
why this microarchtecture is better than a traditional approach (his/her
point (2)).
We have consistently addressed the cycle time issue throughout our design
process. As is stated in the paper, the steps the reviewer claims
WE claim must happen in one cycle are actually spread out over several
cycles; as is stated in Section 6, Table 1,
the register file (forwarding unit) delay is 1 cycle,
the bus delay is one cycle, and the time taken within a Sharing Group
(Active Stations and functional units only) is one or more cycles,
depending on the functional unit delay in question. We assume the 
functional units are pipelined. The comparisons mentioned by the 
reviewer can be done in parallel; they need not be done in order.
Also, Section 5 contains details demonstrating the low cycle 
time due to RC delays, the dominating factor in future chip designs.
	In the early sections of the paper, we give the motivation for
why our design is superior than traditional designs. Basically, given
the necessary resources for the high IPC, our design can be built while
traditional designs cannot, or only at great expense, with high cycle
time and low performance.
	Some of the reviewer's other detailed points are matters of style or 
desire for more detail than we have room to provide.
	Addressing the other points:
	All of our bus bandwidths were limited in the design and the
simulations.
	The taken branch table is not used for hardware PREDICTION but
for hardware PREDICATION; it is used to help delineate branch domains.
	Unrolling backwards branches in hardware exposes more ILP. It
is not hard to do. This is also true for inlining subroutine calls and
returns. These operations both happen OUTSIDE of the execution window, 
and are thus not in the critical path.
	As stated in the paper, D-paths compose about 10% of the total
hardware cost yet yield a 45% performance improvement, clearly a win.
(The next reviewer had the same cost/benefit concern.)

Review #674:
	We are glad that the reviewer has recognized the major strengths
of our proposed microarchitecture.
	WRT quoting performance numbers: In both the introduction and
the conclusion the limitations of the quoted numbers are specified, in
particular referring not to the whole machine but to the execution core
and memory. There was no intent to mislead, only to illustrate the
potential of the microarchitecture; perhaps we should have been clearer.
Also, in Section 7.3, the performance
situation of the entire, real system is stated in black and white: we're
not there, but we've come a long way, and are almost there.
	The trace-based simulator accurately models wrong-path behavior.
	The number of RFU, MFU and PFU buses are clearly stated in Table
1 of Section 6, Experimental Methodology. We do not need a large number
of busses to get high performance. This is why the number of busses was
not expressly addressed in the floorplan.
	I received the ISCA 2002
proceedings last week, long after this paper
was submitted. Regardless of that, our approach to a large instruction
window (or execution window, as we call it) is substantially different
from any proposed in the ISCA papers; further, it is just one component
of an entirely new microarchitecture.

Review #711:
	Addressing the major concerns: many if not most of the proposed
techniques are novel, in particular in their implementation. For
example, as stated in the paper, time-tagging as we employ it 
has been done before in a general way, but not in an implementable
way. Also, WRT the "prior" art, our DEE predates Polypath,
our prior Minimal Control Dependency work (hardware predication) predates
the Skipper machine and Klauser's dynamic predication work; besides,
the latter work IS cited in our paper: Reference [6]. Also, our segmented
broadcast technique is only similar in name to Raasch's work. Our
patent applications predate it anyway by two years. Don't get us wrong,
we'd love to put in many more references, but we are space limited and
thus must concentrate on the most relevant ones.
	WRT the other major concern, the lack of a baseline: the paper 
does in fact include simulation results of a non-Levo traditional
microarchitecture baseline. This is
the Simplescalar PISA architecture with a very high issue width, as
described in the first paragraph of Section 7 (experimental results).
	Other points: the reviewer states that the dependency enforcement
of time-tagging is not explained in the text. However, it is, at length,
on page 4, middle paragraph, as well as in Figure 2. The time tag size is
also discussed, elsewhere in the paper. The size cannot overflow, by
construction; see the first part of Section 5.

Review #753:
	We are glad the reviewer recognized some of the paper's qualities.
	However, this was the shortest review submitted, and was 
submitted after the deadline. From these observations and the content of
the review, it seems that the reviewer did not give the paper the
attention or time it deserved.
	Again, our space is limited; we had no room to go into the
memory latency details.
	The reviewer states that Section 5 and 6 "become meaningless",
since he/she didn't understand an earlier figure.
In the first place, the material of Section 5 is independent of much
of what has come before. In the second place, Section 6 is the
Experimental Methodology section; how can that possibly be meaningless?
	The reviewer also says the paper is way too long. This is not
true, the paper meets the conference word count specification plus or
minus 5%.
