Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2002 16:20:52 +0200
From: David Kaeli <dkaeli@ac.upc.es>
To: uht@ele.uri.edu, dmorano@ECE.NEU.EDU, akhalafi@ECE.NEU.EDU
Subject: Levo comments

Gus,

I gave the paper a good read.  Overall, you have done
a nice job.   My major concern is that there are a lot
of details presented without a lot of reason for the reader
to get into these details.  A teaser would help.  

The only other major concern is the presentation of the
results.  I do not like some of the figures.  I again think
you need to sell the better.  I suspect this will change
in the final version.

I love Table 2.  I wish more papers provided this kind
of detail.

Dave


Notes on manuscript:

Note to reviewers: I would instead say - 
"Note to reviewers:  Every effort has been made to comply
with the blind-reviewing process. Because of the complexity
of this microarchitecture, it is quite difficult to write a
self-contained paper.  We have written many tech reports which
describe the details of many of the features of Levo.  We will
include these citations in the final version of the paper."

The non-italics in the abstract look funky. I am not sure to fix 
this if you want to use italics for the abstract.

In the abstract, segmented buses by themselves do not make Levo 
scalable.  Segmented buses provide for a scalable hardware implementation.
They do not "make" Levo scalable.  

Introduction:

I do not know what you man by "little cycle-time increase".  This means
nothing to me.

What does intransigent mean??  I doubts others will know its meaning either.

4 paragraph, replace "problems impending high" with "impediments to high"

2.2  You refer to ports.  Make it clear these are register ports.

Footnote, page 2: In traditional systems, <the> k**2 term(s) dominate<s>.

3.0 

2nd paragraph "a block <which is> one E-window..."

3rd paragraph, you say there are two key novel features, and then
number 2 things.  This is confusing.  Get rid of the numbers and it
will read fine.

3rd paragraph, you use the word "typically" .  I have never seen hardware
that is typically something.  It is either a column long or not.

3rd paragraph, by the word "bottom" do you mean the end of one segment??

3rd paragraph, change "as many columns as desired" to "additional columns".
The current phrase will incite an argument.

3rd paragraph, change "increasing" to "impacting"

4th paragraph, why are times tags associated with scalable hardware.  I 
think this is confusing.  

4th paragraph, add a sentence to emphasize how time tags are used with all 
dependency checking mechanisms.

5th paragraph, you site Figure 4, which is shown much later.

5th paragraph, you mention "nominal".  I think you can delete this 
qualification.

3.1

You use the term Low Cost, but never define what is the figure of
merit for cost.  I would just delete the arrow and the text it is
pointing at.

2nd paragraph, your figure citing (e.g., (a), (b), etc.) can be 
distracting.  I would repeat the figure number or say, (the following
discussion involves columns (a., b. and c.) in Figure 2.

3rd paragraph, you use the term "closest".  I would also add the
term "most recent".

4th paragraph, what grows linearly?  Performance, space, time, power?


6th paragraph, first use of DEE (which you define later).  Spell it out.

Figure 4. Resize to get the text look like you did not non-uniformly 
scale.  The headings over the columns just look funny.

Figure 4 and many figures, it is difficult to make out that this is a 
caption.  A different font or size would help here.

3.3.1

2nd paragraph, the first sentence is a run-on sentence.

7th paragraph, you say predication only takes a few more bits.  What
is this relative to??

7th paragraph, "they are mainly narrow."  This is vague.

3.3.2

2nd paragraph, "Conditional branches are assigned to a free..."  
Did you means non-predicted conditional branch paths are assigned..."

3rd paragraph, "D-paths can be in arbitrary order..." This is confusing.

4.1 spell out 2/3rds

5

6th paragraph, "to be added to either end..." While this is possible, it
sounds hokey....

Figure 7. I would get the 8.7 GHz line out of this figure.  This will
upset any circuit person.

Table 1. Can you get rid of the whitespace in Table 1?

Figures 8 and 9......  Where is the baseline??  I really do not
get anything out of these figures.  At least clean up the figure to
get rid of the 110%....  These figures are hard to read and really
do not get me excited.

Figure 11. Why do you label it "absolute IPC"?  This gives the 
reader some discomfort...

I think you forgot to delete the Levo website reference.  This
has to be deleted since the papers will give away our identify
bigtime.

Summary comment:

If I was a reader, I would have stopped reading around page 7 or 8.  There
is a lot of detail (which is necessary), but no teasers to keep me reading.
I think they are needed.


Again, I hope these help.  I am planning to stay late to help with the
final.

Dave

