Cover-up at Columbine?
Michelle Malkin
January 13, 2002
The Washington Times


There are good cops and there are bad cops. September 11 has not changed
that fact. We saw the best of the best sacrifice their lives for their
fellow citizens when the World Trade Center crumbled. But while we honor
the memory of heroic police officers, we must not turn a blind eye to
other law enforcement officers who are a disgrace to their profession --
and a danger to the public they are supposed to protect and serve.

For nearly three years, parents of murdered students at Columbine High
School have battled Colorado's law-enforcement establishment for
answers. Teen-age gunmen Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were the primary
perpetrators of the bloody massacre that took place on April 20, 1999.
But did the actions -- or inaction -- of local authorities contribute to
the tragedy?

The evidence, doggedly gathered by Columbine families and largely
corroborated through extensive research by Rocky Mountain News
reporters, is ugly and overwhelming. When the top cops are not twisting
facts, they're sitting on them.

Some of the most disturbing allegations involve Daniel Rohrbough, one of
the 13 innocents shot dead on the Columbine campus. Jefferson County
Sheriff John Stone's office claimed the 15-year-old boy was shot twice
by classmate Dylan Klebold at close range, that a bullet recovered from
Daniel Rohrbough's body was positively identified as having come from
Klebold's gun, and that many bullet fragments were found near Daniel
Rohrbough's body. But neither ballistic tests nor forensics results nor
the department's own released evidence support these claims. And no
gunpowder was found on Daniel Rohrbough's clothes that would indicate
firing at close range.

Daniel Rohrbough's parents believe a Denver SWAT team officer may have
shot their son accidentally with a 9mm machine gun as the boy ran from
the building. They have the taped account of another cop, which they say
bolsters their case. In addition, a report by the Colorado Bureau of
Investigation linked a handful of shell casings found near Daniel
Rohrbough's body to the weapon of SWAT team member Daniel O'Shea. The
angle of Daniel Rohrbough's fatal chest wound also suggests the bullet
came from a gun firing up toward the student -- rather than from one of
the teen-age gunmen inside the school.

Daniel Rohrbough's parents and other families went to federal court last
month with damning documentation of a law enforcement cover-up. Their
motion to reopen dismissed lawsuits against the police includes the
following examples of obstruction and falsification:

+ The department initially denied meeting with parents who had
complained a year before the shooting that Eric Harris made death
threats against their son. Cops later admitted they had met several
times with the parents and had known about Harris' suspected illegal
activities -- including building pipe bombs.

+ The department assured families that all FBI documents related to the
Columbine investigation have been released. But the material available
to the public is nowhere near the number of pages the FBI has stated is
in its files.

+ The department denies unequivocally that any Columbine victims were
hit by police bullets. But ballistics evidence is unresolved in both
Daniel Rohrbough's case and that of fellow student Corey DePooter, who
died in the library. Testing on a bullet found in his backpack remains
incomplete.

On top of all this, a federal judge lambasted the judgment of command
officers who blocked attempts to get medical help to Dave Sanders -- a
courageous Columbine teacher who was wounded while saving countless
students and died after waiting three hours for help to arrive. The
Sanders family is proceeding with its lawsuit, which also contends that
a sharpshooter had Klebold in his sights in the library but was
prevented by supervisors from acting.

When tragedy strikes, heroes rush in selflessly. Cowards like Sheriff
Stone hide behind their desks and blow bureaucratic smokescreens.
Sheriff Stone refused to cooperate with a governor's investigative
commission last year and has adamantly opposed the parents' campaign for
public accountability and disclosure. He scoffed at the families'
grief-paved quest for truth as "ridiculous." For the sake of police
credibility, this petty tyrant must be reined in -- and the whole truth
about Columbine must come out.

Michelle Malkin is a nationally syndicated columnist.
